## Tutorial server instructions

For the hands-on part of the tutorial we will be using a cloud based
environment to simplify setting up the toolkit, hosted at [Perimeter Institute
of Theoretical Physics](https://www.perimeterinstitute.ca/).

There are two different environments offered:

1. for the Einstein Toolkit and Self Force 1D tutorials on Monday and Tuesday
2. for the CarpetX tutorial on Friday

Please make sure to select the correct one for the tutorial you are attending.

All required files are already present in the environment, you do not need to
upload any files or download any software.

Each environment will be available only for the duration of each tutorial.
Data stored persists in between logins but will be removed after the end of the
workshop.

### Creating accounts

Please go to
[https://et2022uidaho.ncsa.illinois.edu](https://et2022uidaho.ncsa.illinois.edu)
and choose a user name and password. Make sure `Password` and `Password2`
match, otherwise account creation will fail.

You will also need to enter a security code into the `Code` field. This code
will be shared at the tutorial days via whiteboard and Zoom chat. Please do not
share that code with anyone.

Account creation is automatic and your account is active the moment you submit
the account creation form.

### Logging in

Once your account has been created you can log in via
[https://et2022uidaho.ncsa.illinois.edu](https://et2022uidaho.ncsa.illinois.edu)
filling out only the `User` and `Password` fields.

### Transferring data out of the tutorial environment

Please select the files you would like to download in Jupyter's file manager
then use the `Download` button in the toolbar above the list of files to
download them to your laptop.

### Editing files

Jupyter has built in editor for text files that opens automatically if you click
on a source code file.

You can create new files using the `New` button in the file listing and
selecting `Text document`. Once the editor starts up you can rename the file
using the `File/Rename` menu item.

### Restoring your account to a pristine state

If your setup has become corrupted and you would like to start over again from
a fresh setup, please do the following:

1. start a Terminal using the `New` button in the file listing
1. remove all files from your home directory using the command `rm -rf $HOME`
1. stop your environment using the `Control Panel` button then `Stop My Server`
1. log back in using [https://et2022uidaho.ncsa.illinois.edu](https://et2022uidaho.ncsa.illinois.edu)

This will restore all files to the state they were at your initial login.

